OSDOCS-3068: Adding an intro to Updates docs (#41268)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/update-common-terms.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * updating/understanding-openshift-updates.adoc

:_content-type: REFERENCE
[id="update-common-terms_{context}"]
= Common terms

Control plane:: The _control plane_, which is composed of control plane machines, manages the {product-title} cluster. The control plane machines manage workloads on the compute machines, which are also known as worker machines.

> Cluster Version Operator:: The _Cluster Version Operator_ (CVO) checks with the OSUS to view valid updates and update paths based on your current component versions and information in the graph.

Reviewer: nit: first use of OSUS, so it should get spellled out `the _OpenShift Update Service_ (OSUS)`.  Or the update-service glossary entry below should be shifted up before this entry.

Reviewer: also "view" -> "retrieve" or some such?  Because we store the information locally, and "view" sounds less persistent.

Author: OSUS is spelled out in the assembly file which comes before this file. So, leaving that as is.

> Cluster Version Operator:: The _Cluster Version Operator_ (CVO) checks with the OSUS to retrieve valid updates and update paths based on your current component versions and information in the graph.

Reviewer 2: CVO is also responsible for starting the update process for the cluster.

Reviewer: and also manages the manifests in the release image.  Maybe something like:

> The _Cluster Version Operator_ (CVO) reconciles the cluster's core {product-title} components with the target release payload.  It also retrieves update recommendations from the OSUS, and updates between releases at the adminstrator's request.

or similar?

Reviewer 3: How about something like "CVO is also responsible for maintaining the cluster baseline version and starting the update process when that version changes" or some such that works in the constant reconciliation angle as well.

Reviewer 2: We can not go to the technical details for this.

Extended Update Support:: All post-4.7 even-numbered minor releases are labeled as _Extended Update Support_ (EUS) releases. These releases introduce a verified update path between EUS releases, permitting customers to streamline updates of worker nodes and formulate update strategies of EUS-to-EUS {product-title} releases that will cause fewer reboots of nodes.
+
For more information, see link:https://access.redhat.com/support/policy/updates/openshift-eus[Red Hat OpenShift Extended Update Support (EUS) Overview].

OpenShift Update Service:: The _OpenShift Update Service_ (OSUS) provides over-the-air updates to {product-title}, including to {op-system-first}. It provides a graph, or diagram, that contains the vertices of component Operators and the edges that connect them.
+
For more information, see link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/latest/updating/understanding-the-update-service.html#update-service-overview_understanding-the-update-service[About the OpenShift Update Service].

> Channels:: _Channels_ provide the appropriate release versions for your cluster. Update channels enable you to choose an update strategy. The channels are tied to minor versions of {product-title}.

Reviewer: nit: might be worth flipping the order here to start out with what you give and then move to what you get.  Maybe:

> Channels:: _Channels_ declare an update strategy tied to minor versions of {product-title}.  The OSUS uses this configured strategy to recommend update edges consistent with that strategy.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * updating/understanding-openshift-updates.adoc

:_content-type: REFERENCE
[id="update-common-terms_{context}"]

> 

Reviewer 4: You could remove this line

> = Common Terms

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
= Common terms
```

> Control Plane:: The _control plane_, which is composed of control plane machines, manages the {product-title} cluster. The control plane machines manage workloads on the compute machines, which are also known as worker machines. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Control plane:: The _control plane_, which is composed of control plane machines, manages the {product-title} cluster. The control plane machines manage workloads on the compute machines, which are also known as worker machines. 
```

> Cluster Version Operator:: The _Cluster Version Operator_ (CVO) checks with the OpenShift Update Service to view valid updates and update paths based on your current component versions and information in the graph.

Reviewer 4: Because it is first instance here, you might consider adding the acronym (even though you do the same in the OSUS entry later, which makes sense given that it's a definition list):

```suggestion
Cluster Version Operator:: The _Cluster Version Operator_ (CVO) checks with the OpenShift Update Service (OSUS) to view valid updates and update paths based on your current component versions and information in the graph.
```

> Machine Config Operator:: The _Machine Config Operator_ (MCO) is a cluster-level operator that manages the operating system and machine configurations. Through the MCO, platform administrators can configure and update systemd, CRI-O and Kubelet, the kernel, NetworkManager, and other system features on the nodes.

Reviewer 4: We've productized "Operator" so even in the generic usage, we use uppercase.
```suggestion
Machine Config Operator:: The _Machine Config Operator_ (MCO) is a cluster-level Operator that manages the operating system and machine configurations. Through the MCO, platform administrators can configure and update systemd, CRI-O and Kubelet, the kernel, NetworkManager, and other system features on the nodes.
```

> Machine Config Operator:: The _Machine Config Operator_ (MCO) is a cluster-level operator that manages the operating system and keeps the cluster up to date and configured. Through the MCO, platform administrators can configure and update systemd, CRI-O and Kubelet, the kernel, NetworkManager, and other system features on the nodes.

Reviewer: nit: There are cluster-configs that are not managed by the MCO, e.g. ingress configurations, image-registry configurations, etc., so "keeps the cluster up to date and configured" -> "keeps the cluster machine configurations up to date" or "manages the operating system and machine configurations" or some such?

+

> For more information, see link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/latest/post_installation_configuration/machine-configuration-tasks.html#machine-config-overview-post-install-machine-configuration-tasks[Machine config overview].

Reviewer: I am not familiar with doc tooling, but it feels a bit weird to have this link that includes a hosting location, instead of something more [relative][1] like `../post_installation_configuration/machine-configuration-tasks.html#machine-config-overview-post-install-machine-configuration-tasks` or some such.

[1]: https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc3986/#section-4.2

Author: @wking this was to get around the restriction of not being able to link within a module. I don't even know (right now) if this will be allowed in terms of peer review.

> Recommended update edge:: _Recommended update edges_ are recommended updates between {product-title} releases.  Whether a given update is recommended may depend on the cluster's configured channel, current version, known bugs, and other information.

Reviewer 4: No biggie but you might consider matching singular-singular here:

```suggestion
Recommended update edge:: A _recommended update edge_ is a recommended update between {product-title} releases.  Whether a given update is recommended can depend on the cluster's configured channel, current version, known bugs, and other information.
```

> Edge:: _Edges_ are shown on the graph and they are versions that you can safely update to.

Reviewer: I like "edge" for folks who are already thinking about [updates as a graph][1].  But for folks at the "I'm interested in updates" stage, who may not have yet realized that they might have several possible targets as choices, I'd rather we use something with more context like "recommended updates" or "update targets" or some such.  I'm fine with "recommended update edges" or similar to mix context from both the sysadmin-with-a-cluster and update-graph contexts, but I think the most important word to include in this name is "update".

[1]: https://github.com/openshift/cincinnati-graph-data

> Extended Update Support:: All post 4.7 even-numbered minor releases are labeled as _Extended Update Support_ (EUS) releases. These releases introduce a verified update path between EUS releases, permitting customers to streamline updates of worker nodes and formulate update strategies of EUS to EUS {product-title} releases that will cause fewer reboots of nodes.

Reviewer 4: Some adjectival hyphenation suggestions:

```suggestion
Extended Update Support:: All post-4.7 even-numbered minor releases are labeled as _Extended Update Support_ (EUS) releases. These releases introduce a verified update path between EUS releases, permitting customers to streamline updates of worker nodes and formulate update strategies of EUS-to-EUS {product-title} releases that will cause fewer reboots of nodes.
```

+
For more information, see link:https://access.redhat.com/support/policy/updates/openshift-eus[Red Hat OpenShift Extended Update Support (EUS) Overview].

> OpenShift Update Service:: The _OpenShift Update Service_ (OSUS) provides over-the-air updates to {product-title}, including {op-system-first}. It provides a graph, or diagram, that contains the vertices of component Operators and the edges that connect them.

Reviewer 4: To clarify that OSUS doesn't deliver RHCOS in an update, but rather delivers an update _to_ RHCOS as well, maybe:
 
```suggestion
OpenShift Update Service:: The _OpenShift Update Service_ (OSUS) provides over-the-air updates to {product-title}, including to {op-system-first}. It provides a graph, or diagram, that contains the vertices of component Operators and the edges that connect them.
```

+

> For more information, see link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/latest/updating/understanding-the-update-service.html#update-service-overview_understanding-the-update-service[About the OpenShift Update Service ]

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For more information, see link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/latest/updating/understanding-the-update-service.html#update-service-overview_understanding-the-update-service[About the OpenShift Update Service].
```
